[SOUND] We have seem
an approximation algorithm for
the knapsack problem that
gives us a solution that
is quite close to the optimal solution.
Now what?
Now what we want is
an approximation scheme.
That is, we want to do better than this.
How could we do better?
Here's one way to get better.
Instead of defining N as 1000n,
we will use this as a larger value of N.
Capital N, 1000n.
And then the rest is the same.
We scale as before, we round as before,
we apply the program, as before, and
we output the corresponding items.
The only difference with the previous
algorithm is that capital N is 1000n,
instead of 100n.
What does this change?
What changes is that, this gives
a solution to knapsack that is now,
instead of being a 99% approximation,
it's a 99.9% approximation.
Very close to optimum, and
the runtime is still polynomial.
We could keep going.
We could keep going that is, we could
get an algorithm, one for each epsilon
that has a running time polynomial input
and whose value is very close to optimum.
The value would be close to optimum
with error at most epsilon OPT.
So what this gives us is
an approximation scheme.
Knapsack has a an approximation scheme.
We can get to a 99% of optimal.
99.9% of optimal.
1- epsilon x optimal.
How epsilon comes in?
The smaller epsilon is.
See how small it is.
I can barely see it.
The closer we are to the optimal solution.
So why not let epsilon go to 0 and
then we will find the exact
optimum in polynomial time?
Well this we cannot quite go that far.
Why?
Because the problem is NP-hard,
so we know we can not do this.
And because, the runtime
increases as epsilon goes to 0.
The runtime is linear in capital N.
When capital n is n/epsilon,
then what we can see is that as epsilon
goes to 0 the runtime goes to infinity.
And so, that is why you cannot
solve the problem exactly
using the approximation scheme.
So what is the method that
we have developed for
the approximation algorithm for the.
We have shown how we can
first simply find the input.
To reduce a complicated input
to an easy special case and
then designed an algorithm that worked for
such simple inputs.
The key to this is to simplify the input
without losing much to the optimal value.
So, with this technique we have
solved the knapsack problem.
It has been the occasion for
us to study rounding.
Rounding the input as opposed to
rounding to get the output as we
saw when we were studying the.
Notice that of all
approximation algorithms this
is perhaps the most practical.
The next half hour is a basic and
this algorithm is an algorithm that is
easy to implement and
quite fast in practice.
Observe that the runtime is not only
polynomial in terms of the input.
But also,
polynomial in terms of 1 over epsilon.
As epsilon goes to 0, of course
the runtime goes to infinity, but
only at polynomial speed.
At the polynomial rate in 1 over epsilon.
And so
such an approximation scheme is called
polynomial time approximations scheme.
The knapsack problem has a fully
polynomial time approximation scheme.
This is the fact you can
remember from this chapter.
A technique for designing
approximation algorithms is rounding
the input to simplify the input
to reduce it to a special case.
Next time we will see some other
approximation schemes using more
complicated rounding techniques.